---
title: Bigger Pockets - 661
date: "2022-09-12T15:54:47.789Z"
draft: true
tags:
  - notes
  - realestate
---

## TODO:

- [x] Listen to episode 279 & 571. These were the last interview with these hosts.
- [x] Start analysing deals to learn. Look at mls. Look at crexi, loopnet. Not looking for deals. Just looking to learn and who to build relationships with.
- [x] Kristman and Wakefield, CBRE, Marcus and milichap mailing lists. To learn the market and figure out who to build relationships with.
- [x] Best deals come from local and regional brokers. So find those for the market.

## Getting started

- When getting into realestate evaluate your goals, your skills skills, and what you generally bring to the table. Think about what unfair advantages you have.
- Set realistic achieve able goals.

Harvard Joint Center for Housing Studies for migration trends shows migration trends by county. Select markets that are dark blue. The strongest driver for multi family is population growth.

The interviewee invests in Atlanta

Once finding. Shortlist of 2-3 places regions. Then look for trends. Are things getting better there? Then look for economic diversity. If growth is because of one company? That is a red flag. Look for high quality medical institutions, education, tech, etc…

Once seeing population growth - look why. Remote work? Lifestyle?

Asheville NC is fun. Hiking. Beer. Etc…

Look at the industries that are driving the city. If it’s driven by 50% auto or gas, consider the decline of those. I.e Detroit. They don’t invest in a city if 20% of the economy in one industry.

What is the biggest mistake people should watch out for?

- do not pick a market because it’s cheap. Usually it’s cheap for a reason. The grass is greenest over the septic tank (best returns are in the mid range)
- People also start building offers too soon (without really knowing the market too well). If you don’t know who all the key people are is problematic. The first few properties are not great. But after learning the market a bit the good deals usually come. “Put the boat in the water and wait to see where the leaks are”

When they are ready to start looking at properties, what would you be doing if you were doing it today.

- buy a plane ticket and go there.
- Look at lots of deals. Treat finding deals like dating. You’ll probably reject hundreds before finding one that you buy into. The more that you look at ones that won’t work. Go into the mindset that you are looking to learn - and you MAY get a deal out of it. If a deal doesn’t work, call the broker and explain the reason (flood zone, high crime rate). Don’t ghost them, always follow up on why rejecting.
  What would you be doing to build your team
- after doing research on location (he picked Atlanta). Consider how are you going to manage them. How are you going to get a loan for them.
- If you are really considering buying the deal, add 2 people you want to have manage and lend it. Then ask the broker their 2 lenders they usually work with. Look at online interviews. Have phone interviews with them. Then do lunch and dinner with them. And then pick one.
- If starting small, and scaling up. Start off with self managing, this will teach you so much. Learned strategies for collecting rent, handling maintenance, setting preventative maintenance things up, etc… and then eventually plan to hand over.

How long would you spend analysing a deal?

- determine go / no go gates.
- Phase 1 - crime rates, street view driveby. Look for absolute dealbreaker. (15-60 mins) potentially if you are learning, be willing to spend more time initially.
-

How to build a brand?

- Define what you want to communicate. Are you conservative, aggressive , etc.
- be consistent with what you communicate. Investor reports? Etc
- Consistently post on the same medium.
- Don’t wait to post on social until you have a deal. It builds credibility when you post even if you don’t have a deal.

## TODO:

Topics to include

- [ ] Building your brand
